---
layout: language
title:  "Shell"
date:   2014-03-22 22:00:00
nb_styles: 3
---

A shell in computing provides a user interface for access to an operating system's services. "Shell" is also used loosely to describe applications, including software that is "built around" a particular component, such as web browsers and email clients that are, in themselves, "shells" for HTML rendering engines. The term "shell" in computing, being the outer layer between the user and the operating system kernel, is synonymous with the general word "shell".

Generally, operating system shells use either a command-line interface (CLI) or graphical user interface (GUI). Mac OS and Windows are widely used operating systems with GUIs.

The optimum choice of user interface depends on a computer's role and particular operation. CLIs allow some operations to be performed faster, rearranging large blocks of data for example. CLIs may be best for servers which are managed by experts: administrators, while GUIs offer simplicity and ease-of-use and would be more appropriate for image editing, CADD, and desktop publishing. In practice, many systems provide both user interfaces which can be called on a command-by-command basis. Windows is the most obvious example with its "command prompt" and normal "windows" mode. It's no exaggeration to say that both Apple Macintosh OS and Microsoft Windows have revolutionised home computing by helping relatively inexperienced users to interface with a PC using a GUI.

In expert systems, a shell is a piece of software that is an "empty" expert system without the knowledge base for any particular application.

## Style guides

- [Shell Style Guide](https://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/shell.xml) (Google)
- [Bash Style Guide and Coding Standard](http://lug.fh-swf.de/vim/vim-bash/StyleGuideShell.en.pdf) (Fritz Mehner)
- [Scripting with style](http://wiki.bash-hackers.org/scripting/style) (Bash Hackers Wiki)